## 4.8.1. Cleaning up
Remove al files created through this chapter.
```bash
$ cd ~/zipf
$ for file in $(find . -name "*.bak")
> do
> 	rm $file
> done
$ rm bin/summarize_all_books.sh
$ rm -r results
```

## 4.8.2. Variables in shell scripts
Imagine you have a shell script called **script.sh** that contains:
```bash
$ head -n $2 $1
$ tail -n $3 $1
```

With this script in your **data** directory, you type:
```bash
$ bash script.sh '*.txt' 1 1
```

We get the **first** and the **last** line of each file ending in **.txt** in the data **directory**.
*We must quote `"*.txt"` to avoid shell expansion before running `script.sh`*

## 4.8.3. Find the longest file with a given extension
Write a shell script called `longest.sh` that takes the name fo a directory and a filename extension as its arguments.
```bash
# longest.sh
1 #!/usr/bin/env bash
2 directory=$1
3 files="*.$2"
4 find $directory -name "$files" -exec wc -l "{}" \; | sort -nr | head -n 1 | awk '{ print $2 }'

# longest2.sh
1 # Shell script which takes two arguments:
2 #    1. a directory name
3 #    2. a file extension
4 # and prints the name of the file in that directory
5 # with the most lines which matches the file extension.
6 #
7 # Usage: bash longest.sh directory/ txt
8
9 wc -l $1/*.$2 | sort -n | tail -n 2 | head -n 1
```


## 4.8.4. Script reading comprehension
Consider your **data** directory once again. Explain what each of the following three scripts would do when run as `bash script1.sh *.txt`, `bash script2.sh *.txt`, `bash script3.sh *.txt`.
```bash
# script1.sh
echo *.*

# bash
$ bash script1.sh *.txt
dracula.txt frankenstein.txt jane_eyre.txt moby_dick.txt README.md script1.sh sense_and_sensibility.txt sherlock_holmes.txt time_machine.txt
```
`*.txt` will be ignored and the script will list all **files** with a **dot** in their name.

```bash
# script2.sh
for filename in $1 $2 $3
do
	cat $filename
done

# bash
$ bash script2.sh *.txt
`content of dracula.txt`
`content of frankenstein.txt`
`content of jane_eyre.txt`
```
The shell will expand `*.txt` before the command is executed so the variables **$1, $2, $3** will be assign to the first three **.txt** files expanded.

```bash
# script3.sh
echo $@.txt

# bash
$ bash script2.sh *.txt
dracula.txt frankenstein.txt jane_eyre.txt moby_dick.txt sense_and_sensibility.txt sherlock_holmes.txt time_machine.txt.txt
```
The shell will expand `*.txt` before the command is executed the special variable **$@** is an array containing all arguments given to the shell script after which the append **.txt**.

## 4.8.5. Using `grep`
Asume the following text from *The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes* is contained in a file calles **excerpt.txt**:
```bash
To Sherlock Holmes she is always THE woman. I have seldom heard
him mention her under any other name. In his eyes she eclipses
and predominates the whole of her sex. It was not that he felt
any emotion akin to love for Irene Adler.
```

Which command would provide the following output:
```bash
and predominates the whole of her sex. It was not that he felt
```

1. `grep "he" excerpt.txt`**NO**. match the pattern **he** in any place, either as a word or within a word.
2. `grep -E "he" excerpt.txt`**NO**. use regular expression the result match the pattern **he** in any place.
3. `grep -w "he" excerpt.txt`**YES** find the pattern **he** as a whole world.
4. `grep -i "he" excerpt.txt`**NO**. math the pattern **he** in any places ignoring cases.

## 4.8.6. Tracking publication years
Write a shell script called **years.sh** that takes any number of filenames as command-line arguments, and print a list of the unique publication years appearing in each of those files separately.
```bash
# years.sh
1 #!/usr/bin/env bash
2 for filename in $*
3 do
4 	cut -d , -f 2 $filename | sort -n | uniq
5 done
```
*There is no difference if you do not put $\* or $@ in quotes. But if you put them inside quotes (which you should, as a general good practice), then $@ will pass your parameters as separate parameters, whereas $\* will just pass all params as a single parameter.*

## 4.8.7. Counting names
Using a `for` loop, how would you tabulate the number of times each sister, Elinor and Marianne, is mentioned in **sense_and_sensibility.txt**?
*One solution employ the commands `grep` and `wc`, while another might utilize `grep` options.*
```bash
$ for name in Elinor, Marianne
> do
> 	grep -ow "$name" sense_and_sensibility.txt | wc -l
> done
# -w select only matches that form the whole world.
# -o prints only the matched parts in separated lines, so if there is more than one occurance on the same line it will count all of them.

$ for name in Elinor, Marianne
> do
> 	grep -cw "$name"
> done
# -c print a count of matching lines for each input file.
```

## 4.8.8. Matching and subtracting
Assume you are in the root directory of the **zipf** project. Which of the following commands will find all files in **data** whose names end in **e.txt**, but do not contain the word **machine**.

1. `find data -name '*e.txt' | grep -v machine`**YES** -v option invert the sense of matching, to select non-matching lines.
2. `find data -name *e.txt | grep -v machine`**NO** This not beahve consistently across all shells because expansion of the wildcard \*e.txt may prevent piping from working correctly.
3. `grep -v "machine" $(find data -name '*e.txt')`**NO** this prints the lines from the files that not contains the word machine.
4. None of the above.

## 4.8.9. `find` pipeline reading comprehension
Write a short explanatory comment for the following shell script:
```bash
$ wc -l $(find . -name '*.dat') | sort -n
```
Count the number of lines of all files with dat extension on the current directory, and do a numerical sort based on the lines.

## 4.8.10. Finding files with different properties
The `find` command can be given criteria called "test" to locate files with specific attributes, such as creation time, size, or ownership.
Find all files in or below your Desktop directory that are owned by you and were modified in the last 24 hours.
```bash
$ find ~ -type f -user cora -mtime -1 2> /dev/null
```

**-mtime** needs to be negative because it is referencing a day prior to the current date.