## 7.12.1. Explaining options
1. What do the `--online`	and `-n` options for `git log` do?
- **--oneline** shows each commit on a single line with the short identifier at the start and the title of the commit beside it.
- **-n** show the last n commits.
2. What other options does `git log` have that you would find useful?
- **--graph** show  text-based graphical representation of the of commits.
- **--since**  and **--after** can be used to show commits in a range of dates or times.
- **--author** can be used to show commits by a particular person.
- **-w** tells Git to ignore whitespace when comparing commits.
- **-p** show the history of a particular file or directory.

## 7.12.2. Modifiying prompt
Modify your shell prompt so that it shows the branch you are on when you are in  a repository.
```bash
export PS1="\\w + \$(git branch 2> /dev/null | grep '^*' | colrm 1 2) \$ "
```

- Setting the **PS1** variable defines the primary shell prompt.
- **\\\w** in a shell prompt means "current directory".
- The **+** is a literal **+** sign between the current directory and the Git branch name.
- The command that gets the name of the current Git branch is in `$(...)`. *We need to escape `$` with `\$` so Bash doesn't just run it once when defining the string.*
	- The `git branch` command shows all the branches, so we pipe that to `grep` and select the one marked with a **\***.
	- Finally, we remove the first column till the second column (i.e., the one containing the **\***) to leave just the branch name.
	- `2> /dev/null` redirects any error to `/dev/null` a special file that consumes input without saving it, to hide error messages showing up in our shell prompt when the current directory isn't a Git repository.

## 7.12.3. Ignoring files
GitHub manrains [a collection of **.gitignore**  files](https://github.com/github/gitignore) for projects of various kinds. Look at the sample **.gitignore** file for Python: how many of the ignored files do you recognize? Where could you look for more information about them?
**Python.gitignore** ignore 76 files or patterns.

## 7.12.4. Creating the same file twice
Create a branch called **same**. In it, create a file called **same.txt** that contains your name anf the date.
Switch back to **master**. Check that **same.txt** does not exists, then create the same file with exactly the same contents.
1. What will `git diff master..same` show?
It shows nothing because there is no differences between the two branches.
2. What will `git merge same master` do?
It will merge because Git combines histories even when files themselves do not differ. After running this command, `git log` shows a commit for the merge.

## 7.12.5. Deleting a branch without merging
Create a branch called **experiment**. In it, create a file called **experiment.txt** thart contains your name and the date, then switch back to **master**.
1. What happens when you try to delete the **experiment** branch using `git branch -d experiment`?
Git refuses to delete a branch with unmerged commits, it doesn't want to destroy our work.
2. What option can you give Git to delete the **experiment** branch? Why should you be very careful using it?
Using **-D** which is a shortcut for **--delete --force**, this is dangerous any content that exits only in that branch will be lost.
3. What do you think will happen if you try to delete the branch you are currently on using this flag?
Even with **-D** it's not possible to delete the branch we are currently on.

## 7.12.6. Tracing changes
Chartreuse and Fuchsia are collaborating on a project. Describe what is in each of the four repositories involved after each of the steps below.
1. Chartreuse creates a repository containing a **README.md** file on GitHub and clones it to their desktop.
2. Fuchsia forks that repository on GitHub and clones their copy to their desktop.
3. Fuchsia adds a file **fuchsia.txt** to the **master** branch of their repository and pushes that to their respository on GitHub.
4. Fuchsia creates a pull requests from the **master** branch of their repository on GitHub to the **master** branch of Chartreuse's repository on GitHub.
5. Chartreuse does not merge Fuchsia's PR. Instead, they add a file **chartreuse.txt** to the **master** branch of their repository and push that change to their repository on GitHub.
6. Fuchsia adds a remote to their desktop repository callled **upstream** that points at Chartreuse's repository on GitHub and runs `git pull upstream master`, then merges any changes or conflicts.
7. Fuchsia pushes from the **master** branch of their desktop respository to the **master** branch of their GitHub repository.
8. Chartreuse merges Fuchsia's pull request.
9. Chartreuse runs `git pull origin master` on the desktop.


> 1. Chartreuse has repositories on GitHub and their desktop containing identical copies of **README.md** and nothing else.
> 2. Fuchsia has repositories on GitHub and their desktop with exactly the same content as Chartreuse's repositories.
> 3. **fuchsia.txt** is in both of Fuchsia's respositories but not in Chartreuse's repositories.
> 4. **fuchsia.txt** is still in both of Fuchsia's respositories but still not in Chartreuse's repositories.
> 5. **chartreuse.txt** is in both of Chartreuse’s repositories but not yet in either of Fuchsia’s repositories.
> 6. **chartreuse.txt** is in Fuchsia's desktop repository but not yet in their GitHub repository.
> 7. **chartreuse.txt** is in both Fuchsia's repositories.
> 8. **fuchsia.txt** is in Chartreuse’s GitHub repository but not in their desktop repository.
> 9. All four repositories contain both **fuchsia.txt** and **chartreuse.txt**.