## 9.11.1. Report results that would change
How can you get `make` to show the command it would run without actually running them?

- `-n, --just-print`: Print the commands that would be executed, but do not execute them.

## 9.11.2.Useful options

1. What does Make's `-B` option do and when is it useful?
	- Unconditionally makes all targets, even files that aren't out of date.
2. What about the `-C` option?
	- `-C dir` change to directory **dir** before reading the makefiles or doing anything else, so `make -C ~/myproject` runs Make in `~/myproject` regardless of the directory it is invoked from.
3. What about the `-f` option?
	- `-f file` use **file** as a makefile, *by default looks a file called `Makefile` or `makefile`*.

## 9.11.3. Make sure the output directory exists
One of our **build recipes** includes `mkdir -p`. What does this do and why is it useful?

This makes the directory, with no error if existing and make parent directories as needed.

## 9.11.4. Print the title and author
The build rule for regenerating the result for any book is currently:
```make
## results/%.csv : regenerate result for any book.
results/%.csv : data/%.txt $(COUNT)
	python $(COUNT) $< > $@
```

Add an extra line to the recipe that uses the `book_summary.sh` script to print the title and author of the book to the screen. Use `@bash`  so that the command itself isn't printed to the screen and don't forget to update the settings build rule to include the `book_summary.sh` script.
If you've successfully made those changes, you should get the following output for Dracula:
```bash
$ make -B results/dracula.csv
Title: Dracula
Author: Bram Stoker
python bin/countwords.py data/dracula.txt > results/dracula.csv
```


```make
## results/%.csv : regenerate result for any book
results/%.csv : data/%.txt $(COUNT)
	@bash $(SUMMARY) $< "Title" 
	@bash $(SUMMARY) $< "Author" 
	python $(COUNT) $< > $@
```

## 9.11.5. Create all results
The default target of our final `Makefile` re-creates `results/collated.csv`. Add a terget to `Makefile` so that `make results` creates or updates any result files that are missing or out of date, but does not regenerated `results/collates.csv`.

```make
# results : regenerate result for all books.
results: $(RESULTS)
```

## 9.11.6. The perils of shell wildcards
What is wrong with writing the rule for `results/collated.csv` like this:

```make
results/collated.csv : results/*.csv
	python $(COLLATE) $^ > $@
```

*(The fact that the result no longer depends on the program used to create it isn't the biggest problem.)*

Using a **wildcard** like this if `results/collated.csv` already exists, the rule tells Make that the file depends on itself.

## 9.11.7. Making documentation more readable
We can format the documentation in out Makefile more reabably using this command:

```make
## help : show all commands.
help : 
	@grep -h -E '^##' ${MAKEFILE_LIST} | sed -e 's/## //g' | column -t -s ':'
```

Using `man` and online search, explain what every part of this recipes does.

- `grep -h -E '^##' ${MAKEFILE_LIST}`
	- `-h, --no-filename`: Supress the prefixing of file names on output. This is the default when there is only one file (or only standard input) to search.
	- `-E, --extended-regexp`: Interpret **PATTERNS** as extended regular expressions.
- `MAKEFILE_LIST`: Is an **automatically defined variable** with the names of all the Makefile in play. *(There might be more than one because Makefiles can include other Makefiles).*
- `sed -e 's/## //g'`
	- `-e script`: Add the script to the commands to be executed.
- `column -t -s ':'`
	- `-t`: Determine the number of columns the input contains and create a table.
	- `-s`: Specify a set of characters to be used to delimit columns for the `-t` option.

```bash
$grep -h -E '^##' Makefile                      
## all : regenerate all results.
## results/collated.png: plot the collated results.
## results/collated.csv : collate all results.
## results/%.csv : regenerate result for any book
## clean : remove all generated files.
## settings : show variables' values.
## help : show this message.

$ grep -h -E '^##' Makefile | sed -E 's/## //g'  
all : regenerate all results.
results/collated.png: plot the collated results.
results/collated.csv : collate all results.
results/%.csv : regenerate result for any book
clean : remove all generated files.
settings : show variables' values.
help : show this message.

$ grep -h -E '^##' Makefile | sed -E 's/## //g' \
| column -t -s ':'
all                     regenerate all results.
results/collated.png    plot the collated results.
results/collated.csv    collate all results.
results/%.csv           regenerate result for any book
clean                   remove all generated files.
settings                show variables' values.
help                    show this message.
```

## 9.11.8. Configuration
A next step is automating this analysis might include moving the definitions of the `COUNT`, `COLLATE`, and `PLOT` variables into a separate file callled **config.mk**:

```make
COUNT=bin/countwords.py
COLLATE=bin/collate.py
PLOT=bin/plotcounts.py
```

and using the `include` command to access those definitions in the existing **Makefile**:

```make
.PHONY : results all clean help setings

include config.mk

# ... the rest of the Makefile ...
```

Under what circumstances would this strategy be useful?

It would be useful if in the future we intended to write a number of different Makefiles that all use the `countwords.py`, `collate.py` and `plotcounts.py` scripts.